---
    title: "Merkle DAGs as a building block"
    type: "text"
---

Merkle DAGs give us a flexible way to model and share data on the
distributed web. This is a fundamental capability&mdash;so much so, in
fact, that Merkle DAGs are the basic building block for many
diverse projects: version control systems like Git, blockchains
like Ethereum, decentralized web protocols like IPFS, and
distributed storage networks like Filecoin all use Merkle DAGs to
store and communicate data!

This widespread use speaks to a potential ability to use Merkle
DAGs as a common basis of communication between disparate
projects. To make this a reality, a project called [InterPlanetary
Linked Data (IPLD)](https://ipld.io) is developing an ecosystem of
Merkle-DAG-based data formats and their formal descriptions,
supporting wide-ranging data interchange. Just like CIDs provide
a common language for referring to content-addressed data, IPLD
defines common formats as formal schemas for structuring and
communicating content-addressed data *structures*.

Systems that can parse IPLD data and CIDs can reference
content from other systems: for example, we could have a Filecoin
deal that references a data blob in IPFS, or a blockchain-based
smart contract that references specific Git commits! CIDs enable
us to give every piece of data a unique global address; Merkle
DAGs and IPLD give us a way to traverse and understand the
structure of that data. Together, they form the basis of a global
web of interlinked and mutually-comprehensible data ecosystems.
